 
 
Digital Invoicing FAQs 
 
What is the Digital Invoicing System? 
The Digital Invoicing System is an initiative by FBR to modernize invoice 
reporting. It allows taxpayers to report invoices in real-time using PRAL's 
integration platform. 
 
What are the benefits of using the Digital Invoicing System? 
 Real-time invoice submission and validation. 
 Automated tax calculations. 
 Seamless integration with ERP systems. 
 Reduced manual errors and improved compliance. 
 Auto population of invoices in Annexure C and Sales Tax Return. 
 
Is the Digital Invoicing System mandatory? 
Yes, as per FBR regulations defined in SRO 709(I)/2025, registered taxpayers 
must use the system for issuing and managing digital invoices. 
 
Is digital invoicing mandatory for businesses that file nil (null) sales tax 
returns? 
Yes. If a business is registered, digital invoicing is mandatory even if no invoices 
are issued (a null submission is still required). 
 
Are penalties applied for late submissions due to technical issues? 
Penalties apply if the failure is due to an issue with the taxpayer's own system. 
The taxpayer must resubmit the invoices once the system is available. 
 
Are exporters required to integrate with the digital invoicing system? 
Yes, exporters are required to complete the integration. 
 
Do small businesses or those without an invoicing system need to comply? 
Yes. All registered persons not specifically exempted must comply. Those 
without an invoicing system must write to their concerned tax office. 
 
 
  

 
 
Do manufacturer already integrated with POS need to migrate to digital 
invoicing? 
Yes, if they fall under a covered B2B category, they must migrate to digital 
invoicing. 
 
How do I access the Digital Invoicing System? 
You can access the system via the IRIS portal using your registration number and 
password. Navigate to Digital Invoicing from the dashboard. Detailed 
documentation available on FBR website. 
 
What are the two integration modes available? 
API Integration: For automated real-time invoice submission. 
Manual Invoice Generation: For manual entry of invoices (limited 
functionality). 
 
Can businesses use both API and manual invoicing simultaneously? 
No. All registered persons with their own invoicing system must complete 
integration and use the API method. 
 
What are the software requirements for the invoicing system? 
There is no restriction on the type or version of software, as long as it supports 
RESTFUL API JSON integration with FBR/PRAL. Older systems (e.g., MS-DOS) 
are practically not feasible. 
 
Is cloud-based software mandatory for integration? 
No. On-premise systems can integrate if they have a stable internet connection 
and a static public IP address. 
 
Can businesses using unauthorized (cracked) software integrate? 
While it may be technically possible, it is not allowed. Security and compliance 
with software licensing are required. 
 
Is integration with PRAL mandatory? 
No. Taxpayers can choose PRAL or any other FBR-licensed integrator. However, 
PRAL offers free services, while others may charge a fee. 
 
Why are other LIs paid if PRAL offers free services? 
PRAL was nominated as an LI to provide free integration services for the ease 
of taxpayers. Other licensed private integrators are also available. 
  

 
 
What are the maximum charges Other Licensed Integrator (LI) can apply? 
An LI cannot charge more than: 
 Rs. 10 per invoice, OR 
 Rs. 100,000 per taxpayer, OR 
 Rs. 1,000,000 annually. 
 
Does PRAL offer its own invoicing software? 
Not yet. 
 
Will PRAL/FBR ensure the security of our business data? 
PRAL commits to encryption and confidentiality. Importantly, PRAL/FBR only 
receive the transmitted invoice data; they do not have remote access to your 
internal ERP or other business systems. 
 
Can PRAL/FBR access our internal system data? 
No. The integration is via API, which only allows for the transmission of invoice 
data. PRAL/FBR cannot remotely access your internal systems. 
 
How do I register for Digital Invoicing through PRAL? 
PRAL provides free integration services, including Sandbox testing. You will 
need to: 
 Submit technical details (contact person, ERP details, etc.). 
 Provide IP whitelisting details (mandatory step). 
 Complete assigned scenarios on the basis of selected business nature 
and activity in sandbox environment before moving to Production. 
 
 
What if I choose another Licensed Integrator? 
You must select the LI from the dropdown list and submit your application. The 
LI will review and approve your request. The remaining process (IP whitelisting, 
Sandbox, etc.) will be handled by the LI. 
 
Can we change our Licensed Integrator? 
Yes. A systematic process will be available in the near future. Currently, such 
requests are handled through the DI CRM. 
 
  

 
 
What technical details are required for registration? 
 Technical contact person details (name, mobile, email). 
 ERP or any other invoicing system provider information. 
 Software type (Cloud/On-Premises) and version. 
 CRM User ID and password for support. 
 Business Nature & Sector 
 
 What is IP Whitelisting, and why is it required? 
IP whitelisting ensures secure communication between taxpayer’s system and 
PRAL's servers. You must provide: 
 Hosting server details (company name, country). 
 Up to 3 IP addresses or upload a file for multiple IPs. 
 
 How do I upload multiple IPs? 
Use the downloadable Excel template, enter IP details, and upload. File should 
be less than or equal to 1 MB in .xls format. 
 
What type of IP connection is required for whitelisting? 
A static public IP is required. Temporary or dynamic IPs (like mobile data) are 
not acceptable. 
 
What if we need to issue invoices while traveling? 
You must use a VPN connected to your whitelisted static IP or use your 
software vendor's whitelisted IP. 
 
How long does IP whitelisting approval take? 
PRAL typically approves or rejects IP whitelisting requests within 2 working 
hours. 
 
What is the Sandbox Environment? 
The Sandbox is a testing environment where you can simulate invoice 
submissions before going live. It helps ensure your integration works correctly. 
 
How do I access the Sandbox Environment? 
After IP whitelisting approval, navigate to the Sandbox Environment tab to: 
 View Web API details. 
 Access sample JSON formats and code snippets. 
 Submit scenarios-based test invoices. 
 
 

 
 
 What happens after Sandbox access is granted? 
 Get Sandbox token 
 Use test credentials and endpoints 
 Submit invoices using scenario-based testing according to your 
sector/business type 
 
What test invoices should I submit? 
Submit invoices that match the Business Nature and Sector selected during 
registration. Each submission will generate a unique Invoice Number. 
 
Can a taxpayer select multiple business Nature (e.g., manufacturer and 
dealer)? 
Yes, multiple roles can be selected in the taxpayer's profile. 
 
What are scenarios in Sandbox testing? 
Scenarios are predefined test cases (e.g., standard rate sales, exempt goods) 
based on your business activity. Refer to the Point # 9 Scenarios for Sandbox 
Testing section of Technical Document. 
 
How do I know which testing scenarios to use? 
The eligible scenarios will be viewable in sandbox environment. Further you 
may check the point # 10 “Applicable Scenarios based on Business Activity” in 
the technical document. E.g., textile manufacturers must test SN001, SN002, 
SN005, SN006, etc. 
 
How do I know if my Sandbox test is successful? 
The system will validate your test invoices. 
Upon successful completion of all assigned scenarios, a Production Token will 
be auto generated. 
 
How much invoices of each scenario I need to complete? 
Minimum 1 invoice of each scenario must be successful to mark it complete. 
Note: The successful, pending and unsuccessful scenarios will be viewable in 
sandbox environment. 
 
What if a test invoice fails? 
Use the error code returned to fix issues. Refer to detailed error code list 
provided in the technical document (Sales/Purchase Errors). 
 
 

 
 
 How do I move from Sandbox to Production? 
Once all test invoices are successfully submitted, the system will generate 
a Production Token. Use this token to complete integration in the Production 
Environment. 
 
What is a production token and where is it used? 
It is a secure credential issued after successful testing in the sandbox (test) 
environment. It is used for all live invoice submissions. 
 
 What details are available in the Production Environment? 
 Production API details. 
 Security Token for real-time invoice submissions. 
 
 How do I go live? 
 Use Production Token 
 Switch endpoints 
 Start real-time invoice posting 
 
If we switch our invoicing software later, is re-integration needed? 
Yes, you will need to complete the integration process again using the same 
credentials/token. 
 
How can a business coordinate integration if its software vendor is overseas? 
Integration can be coordinated remotely using API credentials. PRAL provides 
technical support via email and the DI CRM portal. 
 
 What are the key APIs to use? 
postinvoicedata (Real-time invoice posting) 
validateinvoicedata (Validation before posting) 
Reference APIs for: 
 Province Code 
 HS Code 
 Rate ID 
 UOM ID 
 SRO Items 
 STATL Status 
(Available in Technical document Point # 4 Digital Invoicing APIs) 
 
  

 
 
How do I authenticate API requests? 
Include the Security Token in the request header as follows: 
Authorization: Bearer <Your_Security_Token> 
 
 What is the API endpoint for posting invoices? 
Sandbox: https://gw.fbr.gov.pk/di_data/v1/di/postinvoicedata_sb 
Production: https://gw.fbr.gov.pk/di_data/v1/di/postinvoicedata 
 
 What is the JSON structure for invoice submission? 
Refer to the point # 4.1.1 & 4.1.2 in Technical Documentation for sample JSON 
structures for both Sandbox and Production. 
 
 How do I test APIs using Postman? 
Set the Authorization header: Bearer <Your_Token> 
For Production: 
 Use POST for /postinvoicedata 
 Use POST for /validateinvoicedata 
 For Sandbox: 
 Use POST for /postinvoicedata_sb 
 Use POST for /validateinvoicedata_sb 
 
What if our current software is not compatible with PRAL’s API? 
Using a compatible version is mandatory. You will need to upgrade or change 
your invoicing software. 
 
Do Sandbox and Production have separate URLs? 
Yes, as mentioned in Technical document point # 4.1 & 4.2. 
 
What format is required for invoices? 
JSON object with fields like invoiceType, sellerNTNCNIC, hsCode, rate, etc. 
Refer to the sample JSONs in the technical document. 
 
Where can I get the list of valid HS Codes, UOMs, or SROs? 
Use the Reference APIs: 
https://gw.fbr.gov.pk/pdi/v1/itemdesccode (HS Codes) 
https://gw.fbr.gov.pk/pdi/v1/uom (UOM) 
https://gw.fbr.gov.pk/pdi/v1/sroitemcode (SROs) 
For further details refer to the point # 5 Reference APIs in technical document. 
  

 
 
How do I handle errors in API responses? 
Check the point # 7 Sales Error Codes and point # 8 Purchase Error Codes in 
the Technical Documentation for detailed error descriptions and resolutions. 
 
What do I do if I get an error code? 
Refer to the detailed error code tables: 
Sales Errors (e.g., Code 0046: "Provide rate.") 
Purchase Errors, Each code includes description and resolution suggestion 
 
My invoice returns Invalid but has no error message. 
Check your JSON validity and check the nested invoiceStatuses array; each line 
item may have its own error. 
 
Why am I getting "Calculated Tax Not matched in 3rd Schedule" error?? 
This occurs when sales tax isn't calculated correctly for 3rd Schedule goods. 
Use fixedNotifiedValueOrRetailPrice instead of sale value for tax calculation. 
"fixedNotifiedValueOrRetailPrice": 1000, 
"salesTaxApplicable": 180  // 18% of fixed value 
 
How do I fix "Invalid UOM" error? 
This means your Unit of Measurement is incorrect.  
 UOM values are case-sensitive (use "KG" not "kg") 
 Verify correct UOM from Reference API 
(https://gw.fbr.gov.pk/pdi/v1/uom) 
 
What causes "Wrong sale type is selected with invoice" error? 
This occurs when your sale type doesn't match the transaction. Match sale 
type to your business scenario. Use the correct sales type as provided in the 
reference APIs. 
Common valid types: 
 "Goods at standard rate (default)" 
 "Exempt Goods" 
 "3rd Schedule Goods" 
 
Why does the system say "Provide rate" when I've entered one? 
This occurs when your rate doesn't match the required rate for the sale type. 
Check required rates using: https://gw.fbr.gov.pk/pdi/v2/SaleTypeToRate 
  

 
 
How should I format HS Codes to avoid errors? 
HS Codes must follow strict formatting. 
Requirements: 
 4 digits before decimal 
 4 digits after decimal 
 Example: 0101.2100 
Verify codes using: https://gw.fbr.gov.pk/pdi/v1/itemdesccode 
 
What does "Unauthorized token" mean and how do I fix it? 
This means your security token is invalid or expired. Use correct token for your 
environment (Sandbox vs Production). 
Correct header format:  Authorization: Bearer <Your_Valid_Token> 
 
Why does the system say my seller NTN is invalid? 
Your NTN must be registered with FBR and match API credentials. 
Ensure NTN is active 
Format: "sellerNTNCNIC": "1234567890123" 
 
How should I set buyer registration type correctly? 
This must accurately reflect buyer's status. 
Options: 
"Registered" (FBR-registered) 
"Unregistered" (not registered) 
Example: "buyerRegistrationType": "Unregistered" 
 
What's the correct way to enter province information? 
Provinces must use exact official names. Refer to reference APIs in technical 
document. 
Incorrect: "Karachi", "Lahore" (use province names) 
Correct Format: 
"buyerProvince": "Punjab", 
"sellerProvince": "Sindh" 
 
Is there a daily volume limit on the number of invoices? 
No, there is no limit.  
  

 
 
Can invoices be generated or downloaded in bulk? 
Generation: No, bulk upload is not allowed. Invoices must be transmitted in 
real-time upon generation. 
Download: Currently, individual invoices can be downloaded in PDF format. A 
bulk download (ledger) option is available in the IMS. 
 
Can we preview an invoice before final submission to FBR? 
Yes, but only if your invoicing software has this feature. The invoice is 
transmitted to FBR immediately upon generation in your system. 
 
Is there an option to edit or delete an invoice after submission? 
No. Editing is only allowed before submission. After an invoice is submitted, 
any changes or cancellations must be handled by issuing a credit or debit note. 
 
How are partial payments or instalment invoices handled? 
An invoice for the full value must be generated and transmitted to the buyer 
upon creation. 
 
What happens if an invoice is submitted but not received by FBR? 
You should retry the submission with the valid invoice data. Check your 
integration, reference the APIs, and seek help from the PRAL support team if the 
issue persists. 
 
After integration, is monthly IMS submission still required? 
No. The digital invoicing system replaces the old process of monthly IMS 
submission. 
 
Why is the manual invoice tab disabled in the portal? 
For now, taxpayers with no sales invoicing system must continue to post invoices 
through the IMS until FBR provides further notification.  
 
  

 
 
Where can I find more help? 
Refer to the User Manual and Technical Documentation. 
Contact PRAL support via CRM https://dicrm.pral.com.pk/ or email 
digital.invoicing@pral.com.pk 
 
 
How do I raise a new case in CRM? 
1. Log in to the CRM. (https://dicrm.pral.com.pk) 
2. Click + New Case. 
3. Fill in mandatory fields (priority, query type, title, description). 
4. Attach supporting documents (PDF, max 20MB). 
 
  
How can I track my support case? 
 Use the Case List to view existing cases. 
 Search by case number or title. 
 Click View to check updates or add correspondence. 
 
 
