Error Message Guide 
 
1. Sale Module Errors 
 
0002 - Buyer Registration No. is not in proper format 
Cause: Buyer registration No. is not in proper format   
Action: Please make sure that if available buyer registration no. is in correct format i.e. CNIC 13 
digits, NTN 7 digits (No special characters)   
 
0003 - Provided invoice type is not valid 
Cause: Invoice type not correct   
Action: Please refer to relevant reference API in the technical document for DI API for valid invoice 
types   
 
0007 - Provided sale type is not valid 
Cause: Sale type not correct   
Action: Please refer to relevant reference API in the technical document for DI API for valid sale 
types   
 
0008 - ST WHT is not correct in case of cotton ginner sales type 
Cause: ST WHT is not correct in case of cotton ginner sales type   
Action: For cotton ginner sale type, ST withheld at source should either be zero or same as sales 
tax/fed in ST mode.   
 
0010 - Buyer Name is mandatory 
Cause: Buyer name is not provided   
Action: Please provide relevant buyer's name   
 
0012 - Provided buyer registration type is not valid 
Cause: Buyer registration type is not provided   
Action: Please refer to relevant reference API in the technical document for DI API for valid buyer 
registration types   
 

0013 - Sale type is not provided 
Cause: Sale type is empty   
Action: Please refer to relevant reference API in the technical document for DI API for valid sale 
types   
 
0018 - Sales Tax cannot be empty 
Cause: Sales Tax is not provided   
Action: Please provide valid Sales Tax   
 
0019 - HS Code is either not provided or invalid 
Cause: HS Code is either not provided or invalid   
Action: Please refer to relevant reference API in the technical document for DI API for valid HS Code   
0020 - Rate field cannot be empty or null 
Cause: Rate is not provided or null   
Action: Please refer to relevant reference API in the technical document for DI API for valid Rate   
 
0021 - Value of Sales Excl. ST cannot be empty  
Cause: Value of Sales Excl. ST is not provided   
Action: Please provide valid Value of Sales Excl. ST 
 
0022 - ST withheld at Source cannot be empty where sales type is cotton ginners 
Cause: ST withheld at Source is not provided where sales type is cotton ginners.  
Action: Please provide valid ST withheld at Source   
 
0023 - Sales Tax cannot be empty 
Cause: Sales tax is not provided   
Action: Please provide valid Sales Tax   
 
0026 - Invoice Reference No. is mandatory requirement for debit note 
Cause: Invoice Reference No. is not provided   
Action: Please provide valid Invoice Reference No.   
 
  

0027 - Reason is mandatory requirement for debit note  
Cause: Reason is not provided   
Action: Please refer to relevant reference API in the technical document for DI API for valid reason   
 
0028 - Reason is selected as "Others"  
Cause: Remarks is not provided against "Others"   
Action: Please provide remarks against this reason   
 
0029 - Debit note date should be equal or greater from original invoice date 
Cause: Debit Note date is not correct   
Action: Debit note date should be equal or greater from original invoice date   
 
0034 - Debit note can only be added within 180 days of reference invoice date 
Cause: Debit Note date exceeded 180 days   
Action: Debit note can only be added within 180 days of reference invoice date   
 
0035 - Debit Note date must be greater or same as reference invoice date 
Cause: Debit Note date is not greater or same as reference invoice date   
Action: Debit Note date must be greater or same as reference invoice date   
 
0042 - Invoice date cannot be empty 
Cause: Invoice Date is not provided   
Action: Please provide invoice date   
 
0043 - Invoice date is greater than current date 
Cause: Invoice Date is greater than current date   
Action: Please provide valid invoice date   
 
0044 - HS Code cannot be empty 
Cause: HS Code is not provided   
Action: Please refer to relevant reference API in the technical document for DI API for valid HS Code   
 
0046 - Provided Rate is not correct for selected sales type 
Cause: Provided rate is not correct for selected sales type   

Action: Please provide valid rate for selected Sales Type. Please refer to relevant reference API in the 
technical document for DI API   
 
0050 - For cotton ginner sale type, ST withheld at source should either be zero or same as 
sales tax/fed in ST mode 
Cause: ST WHT is not correct in case of cotton ginner sales type   
Action: For cotton ginner sale type, ST withheld at source should either be zero or same as sales 
tax/fed in ST mode   
 
0052 - HS Code does not match with provided sale type 
Cause: HS Code is not provided for selected sale type   
Action: Please refer to relevant reference API in the technical document for DI API for valid HS Code 
against sale type   
 
0053 - Provided Registration type does not match with Buyer's profile 
Cause: Provided Registration type does not match with Buyer's profile   
Action: Please verify and provide valid Buyer's registration type   
 
0056 - For toll manufacturing sale type, only Buyer's registered for steel sector are allowed 
Cause: Selected buyer does not belong to steel sector   
Action: Please provide registration no. of steel sector buyer   
 
0057 - Reference invoice for debit note does not exist 
Cause: Reference Invoice does not exist   
Action: Please provide valid Invoice Reference No.   
 
0058 - Buyer and Seller Registration number are same 
Cause: Self invoicing is not allowed   
Action: Buyer and Seller Registration number cannot be same   
 
0059 - Declared price (sale value) is less than minimum notified price 
Cause: Declared price(sale value) is less than minimum notified price 
 
Action: Minimum price (sale value) is (Sale Value). Please adjust declared price to meet minimum 
requirement 
 

0060 - Say UoM is required for Services sale type if selected rate is 50/SqY or 100/SqY 
Cause: UoM provided against Services sale type with selected rate 50/SqY or 100/SqY is other than 
SqY 
 
Action: Please provide 'SqY' as UoM for Services sale type when rate is 50/SqY or 100/SqY 
 
0061 - Bill of lading UoM is required for Services (Fed in ST Mode) sale type if selected rate is 
200/bill 
Cause: UoM provided against Services (Fed in ST Mode) sale type with selected rate 200/bill is other 
than Bill of lading 
 
Action: Please provide 'Bill of lading' as UoM for Services (Fed in ST Mode) when rate is 200/bill 
 
0062 - MT UoM is required for Steel melting and re-rolling sale type 
Cause: UoM provided against Steel melting and re-rolling sale type is other than MT 
 
Action: Please provide 'MT' as UoM for Steel melting and re-rolling sale type 
 
0067 - Quantity, Sale value or either tax amounts of the debit note (revised invoice) are 
greater than those of the referenced invoice 
Cause: Debit note quantity, value or either tax amounts are greater than those of the referenced 
invoice   
Action: These should be less or equal to those of the referenced invoice   
 
0071 - Provided Buyer NTN is invalid  
Cause: Invalid Buyer NTN   
Action: Please verify and provide valid Buyer's NTN   
 
0073 - Seller province is either not provided or invalid 
Cause: Seller province is empty or invalid   
Action: Please refer to relevant reference API in the technical document for DI API for valid Seller 
Province   
 
0074 - Buyer province is either not provided or invalid 
Cause: Buyer province is empty or invalid   
Action: Please refer to relevant reference API in the technical document for DI API for valid Buyer 
Province   
 

0077 - Valid SRO/Schedule No. is mandatory where rate is not 18% 
Cause: SRO/Schedule No. is either not provided or invalid   
Action: Please refer to relevant reference API in the technical document for DI API for valid 
SRO/Schedule No. for the provided rate   
 
0078 - Valid Item Sr. No. is mandatory where SRO/Schedule No. is provided 
Cause: Item Sr. No. is either not provided or invalid   
Action: Please refer to relevant reference API in the technical document for DI API for valid Item Sr. 
No. for the provided SRO/Schedule No.   
 
0079 - For value greater than 20,000 (per unit), 5% rate is not allowed 
Cause: Sale value is greater than 20000 per unit and rate is 5%   
Action: Please refer to relevant reference API in the technical document for DI API for valid rate 
against the "Electricity Supply to Retailers" sale type   
 
0082 - Provided seller registration no. does not belong to registered person 
Cause: Seller Registration No. is not provided   
Action: Please provide valid seller registration no. (NTN/CNIC)   
 
 
0086 - You are not a EFS license holder who has imported Compressor Scrap in the last 12 
months 
Cause: Seller is not EFS license holder who has imported compressor scrap in the last 12 months   
Action: Only EFS license holders who have imported Compressor Scrap in the last 12 months are 
allowed   
 
0090 - Fixed/Notified Value or Retail Price is mandatory 
Cause: Fixed/Notified Value or Retail Price is empty.   
Action: Where sale type is "3rd Schedule Goods", Fixed/Notified value or Retail Price is mandatory   
 
0091 - Extra tax provided where sale is of reduced rate goods 
Cause: Extra tax provided against goods at reduced rate   
Action: Please verify if provided sale type is for Goods at reduced rate   
 

0093 - Manufacturers cannot add Non-adjustable supplies 
Cause: Manufacturer is attempting to add Non-adjustable supplies   
Action: Manufacturers cannot add Non-adjustable supplies where SRO/Schedule No. is "Eighth 
Schedule Table I", and Item Sr. No. is "81"   
 
0097 - Provided UoM is not KG 
Cause: Sale type is "Potassium Chlorate" and UoM is not KG   
Action: Please provide valid HS Code and UoM "KG" where sale type is "Potassium Chlorate"   
 
0098 - Quantity is empty 
Cause: Quantity is empty where goods are being sold at standard rate   
Action: Quantity is mandatory for sales of goods   
 
0099 - Provided UoM is not allowed against the provided HS Code 
Cause: Invalid UoM is provided for selected HS Code   
Action: Please refer to relevant reference API in the technical document for DI API for valid UoM 
against selected HS Codes   
 
0100 - Provided buyer is not registered 
Cause: Where sale type is "Cotton Ginner", buyer is unregistered   
Action: Please add a registered buyer where sale type is "Cotton Ginner"   
 
0101 - Toll manufacturing cannot be declared as service 
Cause: 8805.2100 HS Code selected against services sale type   
Action: Please select valid HS Code and Sale Type to add a sale invoice   
 
0102 - Provided sales tax amount does not match the calculated sales tax amount in case of 
3rd schedule goods 
Cause: Provided sales tax amount does not match the calculated sales tax amount in case of 3rd 
schedule goods   
Action: Please ensure that the Fixed/Notified Value or Retail Price is used to calculated the Sales Tax 
Amount for the provided rate   
 

0103 - Provided sales tax amount does not match the calculated sales tax amount in case 
where sale type is "Potassium Chlorate" 
Cause: Provided sales tax amount does not match the calculated sales tax amount in case where sale 
type is "Potassium Chlorate"   
Action: Please refer to relevant reference API in the technical document for DI API for valid rates 
against selected Sale Types   
 
0104 - Provided sales tax amount does not match the calculated sales tax amount 
Cause: Provided sales tax amount does not match the calculated sales tax amount where Sale value 
is multiplied by the provided rate   
Action: Please ensure that the provided Sale Value is used to calculate the Sales Tax Amount for the 
provided Rate   
 
0105 - Provided sales tax amount does not match the calculated sales tax amount 
Cause: Provided sales tax amount does not match the calculated sales tax amount where Quantity is 
multiplied by the provided rate   
Action: Please ensure that the provided Quantity is used to calculate the Sales Tax Amount for the 
provided Rate   
 
0108 - Seller Registration No. is not in proper format 
Cause: Seller registration No. is not in proper format   
Action: Please make sure that if available seller registration no. is in correct format i.e. CNIC 13 
digits, NTN 7 digits (No special characters)   
 
0113 - Invoice date is not in proper format 
Cause: Invalid date format   
Action: Please provide invoice date in "YYYY-MM-DD" format. For example: 2025-05-25   
 
0300 - Provided numeric values are invalid 
Cause: Invalid numeric value   
Action: Numeric values must not be negative, null, empty or string type   
 
0302 - Decimal places exceed allowed limits 
Cause: Decimal places exceed allowed limits   
Action: Please provide numeric values with up to 2 decimal places (4 in case of quantity)   
 
